PSMDB-1587 Release notes 7.0.16-10 (#961)
percona/psmdb-docs: docs/release_notes/7.0.16-10.md

# Percona Server for MongoDB 7.0.16-10 ({{date.7_0_16}})

[Installation](../install/index.md){.md-button}
[Upgrade from MongoDB Community](../install/upgrade-from-mongodb.md){.md-button}

Percona Server for MongoDB 7.0.16-10 is an enhanced, source-available, and highly-scalable database that is a
fully-compatible, drop-in replacement for MongoDB Community Edition.

Percona Server for MongoDB 7.0.16-10 includes the improvements and bug fixes of [MongoDB 7.0.16 Community Edition](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/release-notes/7.0/#7.0.16---dec-20--2024) and supports its protocols and drivers.

## Release Highlights

This release provides the following features and improvements:

### Improved security for Docker images

> Percona Server for MongoDB Docker image is now based on Universal Base Image (UBI) version 9, which includes the latest security fixes. This makes the image compliant with the Red Hat certification and ensures the seamless work of containers on Red Hat's container orchestration platforms like OpenShift.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Percona Server for MongoDB Docker image is now based on Universal Base Image (UBI) version 9, which includes the latest security fixes. This makes the image compliant with the Red Hat certification and ensures the seamless work of containers on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.
```

> ### Packaging changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Amazon Linux 2023 support
```

> Percona Server for MongoDB is available on Amazon Linux which simplifies its deployment on AWS services.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Percona Server for MongoDB is now available and fully supported on Amazon Linux 2023 (AL23), simplifying its AWS deployment. You can safely run PSMDB 7.0.16-10 on AL23 to build a secure, stable, high-performance environment for developing and running cloud applications, with seamless integration with various AWS services and development tools.  
```

### Upstream Improvements

The bug fixes, provided by MongoDB and included in Percona Server for MongoDB, are the following:

* [SERVER-67816](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-67816) - Fixed time rounding for timeseries control block of dates prior to 1970
* [SERVER-90672](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-90672) - Ensured there are no buckets with the same OID both within a stripe and across stripes for time-series collections 
* [SERVER-90893](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-90893) - Made list databases consistent to a given storage snapshot
* [SERVER-94559](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-94559) - Fixed the issue with tracking the archived bucket based on the minTime in the bucket registry for time series measurements by leaving the bucket’s minTime unchanged when performing user deletes/updates on it
* [SERVER-95067](https://jira.mongodb.org/browse/SERVER-95067) - Handle multiple batches per bucket in time-series insert

Find the full list of changes in the [MongoDB 7.0.16 Community Edition release notes](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/release-notes/7.0/#7.0.16---dec-20--2024).

## Changelog

### Improvements

> * [PSMDB-1441](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PSMDB-1441) - Fixed the issue with master encryption keys getting lost when the number of created secrets exceeds the threshold by preventing a new secret creation and alerting users about it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
It's included in prev version.

### Fixed Bugs

* [PSMDB-1243](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PSMDB-1243) - Fixed the issue with starting Percona Server for MongoDB Docker container with data-at-rest encryption configured via the configuration file
* [PSMDB-1573](https://perconadev.atlassian.net/browse/PSMDB-1573) - Added escaping of special characters when building LDAP queries

> 

Reviewer 2: Add PSMDB-1567
